[MUSIC]
We have solved bin packing in the case
when all items sizes are large,
larger than the bin
capacity times epsilon.
Now, let us move onto
the fully general case and
design an algorithm when there are no
assumptions about the item sizes.
We're going to do a reduction
to the previous case.
How do we do it?
We want items to be large.
So what do we do?
We look at which items are small and
which items are large.
Here is the general algorithm We will set
aside all the items that we don't want.
The items with sizes are less
than the bin capacity times that.
Let's call these items small.
We set the small items aside.
And then what do we do
with the remaining items?
They're all large, they're all larger
than the capacity times epsilon.
So, in the next four lines
here what we do is we apply
the previous algorithm, the algorithm
in the case when all items are large.
So this is a reduction from the general
case to the case of large items.
The case of large items,
as a reminder, is a reduction to a case
when the sides are, are rounded.
When all items are large and
there are a few distinct sizes.
So it's like, ration dolls.
You know, we solve a special,
special case, then a special case.
Than the general case.
We open the box, solve it, then we close
the box again, close the door again, and
use it as a black box for
the next more general problem.
Okay, so once we have solved
the problem when the items are large,
it remains to deal with the small items.
What do we do with them?
We do something simple.
There's no big difficulty here.
We just greedily add
the small sizes in the bins.
So let me do this in pictures.
Here's the input.
I have a bunch of items,
some of them are small.
The ones that are less than
epsilon B The others are large.
Small, large.
Set aside the small items, whoosh.
Here we go.
New input, no small items, miracle.
Solve the problem for the large items.
Black box.
We saw this before.
What do we get?
A certain packing of
the large items into bins.
Okay.
I drew this abstractly.
I did not distinguish between
which items went where.
I only look at how much
the bins are filled.
And then we add the small items back in.
So what do we do?
Look at the small items.
Look at these bins
packing the large items.
We greedily add the little
items there in those bins,
as much as we can here and there,
and maybe they don't fit here.
So, let's put them there.
This looks familiar.
This is where we reuse the intuition we
got earlier on when all items were small.
It's a similar idea.
And that's the algorithm, that's it.
Okay, so now this is too short for
a section, so let me do the analysis.
I will do the complete analysis
in just a couple of slides.
Analysis.
Why is this good?
Why is this near optimal?
Now input I is divided into two parts.
The small items and the large items.
I is S union L Two cases in analysis.
When I added the small items back
into my blue packing, either
I did not open any new bin,
or I opened some new bins.
If I did not open any new bin,
then what is the value of the output?
It did not change in the last step.
So it's exactly the value of the packing
of the large items, packing of L.
And what is that That we know
from the previous section,
is at most 1 + epsilon times OPT(L).
And what do we know about
this L is just a subset of I.
Is just the larger items are just
a subset of the input items.
So by monotonicity,
this is OPT(L) is less than OPT(I).
In this case, our output has value at
most 1 + epsilon times OPT Very good.
When no new bins are open in the last
step our algorithm is near optimal.
Case 2.
Some new bins are open by S.
When we creatively added the small
items in our blue backing,
we have to open some
new bin at some point.
So now we have more bins then before.
But now what we are going to do is get
intuition from what we looked at early on.
When all of the items are small
all the bins except the last
one are filled to a high level.
Namely to a level at least one minus
epsilon times the bin capacity.
Why?
Because we only open a new bin if an item
doesn't fit in any of the existing bins.
So, every existing bin have to be
filled to at least B minus Xn of B.
The antispace must be less than Xn of B.
Alright.
So from this statement, we can deduce
that some of the sizes is at least,
the number of bins minus one,
times one minus epsilon.
the sum of the sizes is the sum
of the volumes of the bins.
And if we look at all the bins other
than the last one they're all filled
to at least one minus epsilon times b.
Okay so on the other hand we know that
the sum of all the sizes is at most opt.
So what does this mean?
Putting this together the value
of the output is at least
one over one minus epsilon times opt
Plus one for that single last bin.
All right, so
in both cases the output is good.
Looking at both cases and
putting them together,
what we see is that the algorithm in
polynomial time gives us a packing
into the bins such that the value of
the output Is less than is at most
times 1 plus a big O epsilon plus 1.
I said big O epsilon because of
the 1 over 1 minus epsilon here.
1 over 1 minus epsilon is 1 plus
epsilon plus epsilon squared plus
epsilon cubed plus epsilon to
the fourth plus, and so on.
Which is (1 + O(epsilon)).
So what have we done here?
We have designed an asymptotic
approximation scheme for
the bin packing problem.
And now,
if you're tired of technical stuff,
let us stand back a little bit and
review some of the history of bin packing.